
# Typesafe License And Subscription Agreement

**Version 1.1**

PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE YOU AGREE TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU ARE
ACTING ON BEHALF OF AN ENTITY, THEN YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO
ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF THAT ENTITY. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE
TERMS, YOU SHOULD NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT OR INSTALL OR USE THE
SOFTWARE.

This License and Subscription Agreement ("Agreement") is made by and between
Typesafe, Inc. ("Typesafe") with its principal place of business at 27 South
Park Avenue, Suite 101, San Francisco, California 94107 and the person or entity
entering into this Agreement ("Customer"). The effective date ("Effective Date")
of this Agreement is the date Customer agrees to these terms or installs or uses
the Software (as defined below). Capitalized terms have the meaning set forth in
the applicable Sections or in Section 9. This Agreement applies to Customer's
use of the Software but it shall be superseded by any signed agreement between
you and Typesafe concerning the Software.


## 1. License

**1.1 Types of Licenses.** There are two (2) types of licenses covered in this
Agreement: (i) free Development Use and Evaluation Licenses; and (ii) paid
Software Subscriptions consisting of Developer Subscription, Gold Subscription
and Platinum Subscription, which also include Support Services (as defined
below) for the Software. The terms for Software Subscriptions shall only apply
once Customer has purchased the applicable Software Subscription from Typesafe.

**1.2 Development Use and Evaluation License Grant.** Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, Typesafe grants to Customer, during the Term of
this Agreement, a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable right and license, to
use the Software solely for evaluation and development purposes and in no event
may Customer use the Software for production or any other commercial purposes.

**1.3 Software Subscription License Grants.**

**1.3.1 Developer Subscription.** Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, during the time Customer has purchased a Developer Subscription,
Typesafe grants to Customer a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable license
to install and use the Software on a per named developer basis solely for
development purposes and in no event may Customer use the Software for
production or any other commercial purposes. If the number of developers using
the Software increases, Customer shall notify Typesafe and pay the Fees
applicable to such additional developers beginning from the first date of such
use.

**1.3.2 Gold and Platinum Subscription.** Subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement, during the time Customer has purchased a Gold or Platinum
Subscription, Typesafe grants to Customer a limited, non-exclusive, non-
transferable license to install and use the Software on Servers solely in
connection with Customer's business operations. All of Customer's Servers on
which the Software is installed or used must be covered by a Software
Subscription; if Customer increases the quantity of Servers on which the
Software is installed or used, Customer shall notify Typesafe, and pay the Fees
applicable to such additional Servers beginning from the first date of such use.

**1.3.3 Termination or Expiration of Software Subscription.** Upon termination
or expiration of the Software Subscription, Customer's license to the Software
granted under this Agreement shall terminate.

**1.4 License Restrictions.** For both Development Use and Evaluation Licenses
and Software Subscriptions, Customer shall not itself, or through any parent,
subsidiary, affiliate, agent or other third party:

**1.4.1** sell, lease, license, distribute, sublicense or otherwise transfer in
whole or in part, any Software or the Documentation to a third party; or

**1.4.2** decompile, disassemble, translate, reverse engineer or otherwise
attempt to derive source code from the Software, in whole or in part, nor shall
Customer use any mechanical, electronic or other method to trace, decompile,
disassemble, or identify the source code of the Software or encourage others to
do so, except to the limited extent, if any, that applicable law permits such
acts notwithstanding any contractual prohibitions, provided, however, before
Customer exercises any rights that Customer believes to be entitled to based on
mandatory law, Customer shall provide Typesafe with thirty (30) days prior
written notice and provide all reasonably requested information to allow
Typesafe to assess Customer's claim and, at Typesafe's sole discretion, to
provide alternatives that reduce any adverse impact on Typesafe's intellectual
property or other rights; or

**1.4.3** allow access or permit use of the Software by any users other than
Customer's employees or authorized third-party contractors who are providing
services to Customer and agree in writing to abide by the terms of this
Agreement, provided further that Customer shall be liable for any failure by
such employees and third-party contractors to comply with the terms of this
Agreement and no usage restrictions, if any, shall be exceeded; or

**1.4.4** create, develop, license, install, use, or deploy any third party
software or services to circumvent or provide access, permissions or rights
which violate the license keys embedded within the Software; or

**1.4.5** modify or create derivative works based upon the Software or
Documentation; or

**1.4.6** disclose the results of any benchmark test of the Software to any
third party without Typesafe's prior written approval; or

**1.4.7** change any proprietary rights notices which appear in the Software or
Documentation; or

**1.4.8** use the Software as part of a software as a service or in any other
resale capacity.

**1.5 Copies.** Customer may make up to two copies of the Software for backup
and/or archival purposes.

**1.6 Software Terms of Use.** Software may include use of anonymous usage
metrics as governed and described here: http://typesafe.com/legal/softwareterms

**1.7 Open Source Software.** The Software may include individual open source
software components, each of which has its own copyright and its own applicable
license conditions. The open source software is licensed to Customer under the
terms of the applicable open source license conditions and/or copyright notices
that can be found in the licenses file, the Documentation or other materials
accompanying the Software.


## 2. Support Services

For Customers purchasing a Software Subscription, Typesafe shall provide Support
Services for the Software as described in Exhibit A at the level selected by
Customer (e.g., Developer, Gold or Platinum). Support Services are provided to
Customer solely for Customer's internal use and Customer may not use the
Software or Support Services to supply any services or support to any third
party.


## 3. Fees and Payment

The provisions of this Section 3 apply to Software Subscriptions only. Customer
agrees to pay Typesafe the applicable fees ("Fees") for the Software
Subscription. In addition, Customer shall pay all sales, use, value added,
withholding, excise taxes and other tax, duty, custom and similar fees levied
upon the delivery or use of the Software Subscriptions described in this
Agreement. Fees shall be invoiced in full upon the purchase of the applicable
Software Subscription. Unless otherwise agreed between the parties in writing,
all invoices shall be paid in US dollars and are due upon receipt and shall be
paid within thirty (30) days. Payments shall be made without right of set-off or
chargeback. If Customer does not pay the invoices when due, Typesafe may charge
interest at one percent (1%) per month on the unpaid balance. If any applicable
law requires Customer to withhold amounts from any payments to Typesafe under
this Agreement, (a) Customer shall effect such withholding, remit such amounts
to the appropriate taxing authorities and promptly furnish Typesafe with tax
receipts evidencing the payments of such amounts and (b) the sum payable by
Customer upon which the deduction or withholding is based shall be increased to
the extent necessary to ensure that, after such deduction or withholding,
Typesafe receives and retains, free from liability for such deduction or
withholding, a net amount equal to the amount Typesafe would have received and
retained absent the required deduction or withholding.


## 4. Confidentiality

For a period of five (5) years from the date of disclosure of the applicable
Confidential Information, Customer shall (i) hold the Confidential Information
in trust and confidence and avoid the disclosure or release thereof to any other
person or entity by using the same degree of care as it uses to avoid
unauthorized use, disclosure, or dissemination of its own Confidential
Information of a similar nature, but not less than reasonable care, and (ii) not
use the Confidential Information for any purpose whatsoever except as expressly
contemplated under this Agreement; provided that, to the extent the Confidential
Information constitutes a trade secret under law, Customer agrees to protect
such information for so long as it qualifies as a trade secret under applicable
law. Customer shall disclose the Confidential Information only to those of its
employees and contractors having a need to know such Confidential Information
and shall take all reasonable precautions to ensure that such employees and
contractors comply with the provisions of this Section. The obligations of
Customer under this Section shall not apply to information that Customer can
demonstrate (i) was in its possession at the time of disclosure and without
restriction as to confidentiality, (ii) at the time of disclosure is generally
available to the public or after disclosure becomes generally available to the
public through no breach of agreement or other wrongful act by Customer, (iii)
has been received from a third party without restriction on disclosure and
without breach of agreement by Customer, or (iv) is independently developed by
Customer without regard to the Confidential Information. In addition, Customer
may disclose Confidential Information as required to comply with binding orders
of governmental entities that have jurisdiction over it; provided that Customer
gives Typesafe reasonable written notice to allow Typesafe to seek a protective
order or other appropriate remedy, discloses only such Confidential Information
as is required by the governmental entity, and uses commercially reasonable
efforts to obtain confidential treatment for any Confidential Information
disclosed. Notwithstanding the above, Customer agrees that Typesafe, its
employees and agents shall be free to use and employ their general skills, know-
how, and expertise, and to use, disclose, and employ any generalized ideas,
concepts, know-how, methods, techniques or skills gained or learned during the
course of any licenses, Subscriptions and the Support Services for the Software
performed under this Agreement.


## 5. Ownership

**5.1 Ownership of Software.** Typesafe and its licensors shall retain all
intellectual property and proprietary rights in the Software, Documentation, and
related works, including but not limited to any derivative work of the
foregoing.

**5.2 Customer's Materials.** Customer grants to Typesafe a nonexclusive, non-
transferable, royalty-free license to use materials provided by Customer to
Typesafe during the Term of this Agreement solely for the purpose of performing
the Support Services for the Software for Customer.


## 6. Warranties, Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability

**6.1 Development Use and Evaluation Licenses.**

**6.1.1 Disclaimer.** THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION MADE AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMER
UNDER A DEVELOPMENT USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE ARE PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND TYPESAFE
AND ITS SUPPLIERS MAKE NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, INTEGRATION, NON-INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, PERFORMANCE, AND
ACCURACY AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARISING FROM STATUTE, COURSE OF DEALING,
COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, OR USAGE OF TRADE WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE
FOREGOING DISCLAIMER, THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION ARE NOT DESIGNED,
MANUFACTURED OR INTENDED FOR USE IN THE PLANNING, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE,
CONTROL, OR DIRECT OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION, CONTROL
OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, WEAPONS SYSTEMS, OR DIRECT LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS.

**6.1.2 Limitation of Liability.** WITH REGARD TO DEVELOPMENT USE AND EVALUATION
LICENSES, IN NO EVENT WILL TYPESAFE OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT FOR ANY INDIRECT, RELIANCE, PUNITIVE, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND AND HOWEVER CAUSED AND IN NO EVENT
WILL TYPESAFE'S CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH
THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS (US$100). IN NO EVENT
WILL TYPESAFE'S SUPPLIERS HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS AGREEMENT. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 6.1.2 ALLOCATE RISKS UNDER
THIS AGREEMENT BETWEEN CUSTOMER, TYPESAFE AND TYPESAFE'S SUPPLIERS. THE
FOREGOING LIMITATIONS, EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS APPLY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EVEN IF ANY REMEDY FAILS IN ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.

**6.2 Software Subscriptions.**

**6.2.1 Warranties.**

**6.2.1.1 Software.** Typesafe warrants to Customer purchasing a Software
Subscription only that, for a period of thirty (30) days following the date the
Software is initially licensed by Customer, the Software shall substantially
conform to the description contained in the applicable Documentation ("Warranty
Period"). If during the Warranty Period the Software does not substantially
conform to the description contained in the applicable Documentation, Typesafe
shall perform the Support Services described in Exhibit A.

**6.2.1.2 Support Services.** Typesafe warrants to Customer purchasing a
Software Subscription only that, the Support Services shall be performed in a
workmanlike manner and shall conform to standards of the industry. If the
Support Services are not performed as set forth above, Typesafe shall re-perform
the applicable Support Services.

**6.2.1.3** The remedies in Section 6.2.1.1 and 6.2.1.2 are Customer's sole and
exclusive remedies for breach of warranty and Typesafe's sole and exclusive
liability for breach of warranty.

**6.2.1.4** The warranties in Sections 6.2.1.1 and 6.2.1.2 are made to and for
the benefit of Customer only. The warranties shall apply only if: (i) the
Software has been properly installed and used at all times and in accordance
with the instructions in the applicable Documentation; (ii) no modification,
alteration or addition has been made to the Software; and (iii) Typesafe
receives written notification of the breach, in the case of the warranty in
Section 6.2.1.1, within thirty (30) days following the date the Software were
initially licensed by Customer, and in the case of the warranty in Section
6.2.1.2, within three (3) days following the performance of the relevant Support
Services.

**6.2.2 Disclaimer.** WITH REGARD TO SOFTWARE SUBSCRIPTIONS, EXCEPT FOR THE
WARRANTIES IN SECTION 6.2.1, THE SOFTWARE, SUPPORT SERVICES AND DOCUMENTATION
ARE PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND TYPESAFE AND ITS SUPPLIERS MAKE NO WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, INTEGRATION, NON-
INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, PERFORMANCE, AND ACCURACY AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES
ARISING FROM STATUTE, COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, OR USAGE OF
TRADE WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING DISCLAIMER, THE SOFTWARE,
SUPPORT SERVICES AND DOCUMENTATION ARE NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED OR INTENDED
FOR USE IN THE PLANNING, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, CONTROL, OR DIRECT OPERATION
OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION, CONTROL OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS,
WEAPONS SYSTEMS, OR DIRECT LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS.

**6.2.3 Limitation of Liability.** WITH REGARD TO SOFTWARE SUBSCRIPTIONS, IN NO
EVENT WILL TYPESAFE OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY
INDIRECT, RELIANCE, PUNITIVE, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INCIDENTAL
DAMAGES OF ANY KIND AND HOWEVER CAUSED. WITH REGARD TO SOFTWARE SUBSCRIPTIONS,
IN NO EVENT WILL TYPESAFE'S CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING IN
CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE AMOUNT PAID TO TYPESAFE BY CUSTOMER
UNDER THIS AGREEMENT DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS PRECEDING THE DATE OF THE
CLAIM. IN NO EVENT WILL TYPESAFE'S SUPPLIERS HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM
ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 6.2.3
ALLOCATE RISKS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT BETWEEN CUSTOMER, TYPESAFE AND TYPESAFE'S
SUPPLIERS. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS, EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS APPLY TO THE
MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EVEN IF ANY REMEDY FAILS IN ITS
ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.


## 7. Term and Termination

**7.1** This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and continue until
terminated as set forth in this Agreement ("Term"). For Development Use and
Evaluation Licenses, either party may terminate this Agreement immediately upon
written notice to the other party, and the license granted in Section 1.2
automatically terminates upon the termination of this Agreement. For Software
Subscriptions, either party may terminate this Agreement in the event that the
other party breaches this Agreement and does not cure such breach within thirty
(30) days of written notice. Each Software Subscription shall begin on the date
Customer purchases the Software Subscription and shall continue during the time
Customer has paid the initial Subscription Fees ("Initial Term"), unless
terminated earlier in accordance with this Section 7.1. Software Subscriptions
shall automatically renew for additional terms of one (1) year each (each a
"Renewal Term") unless either party gives the other party written notice of its
intent not to renew at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-
current term. The license granted in Section 1.3 of this Agreement automatically
terminates upon the termination of the underlying Software Subscription.
Expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason shall not relieve the
parties of any obligation accruing prior to expiration or termination.

**7.2** Sections 4, 5, 6.1.1, 6.1.2, 6.2.2, 6.2.3, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive the
expiration or termination of this Agreement.

**7.3** During the Term and for one (1) year following termination or expiration
(but no more than once in a calendar year), Typesafe and its auditors may
inspect Customer's records relating to its reproduction and use of the Software
for the purposes of verifying Customer's compliance with this Agreement.
Customer shall cooperate fully with Typesafe and its auditors in conducting
audits and provide reasonable assistance. If an underpayment is discovered,
Customer shall promptly pay such amount and Customer shall reimburse Typesafe
for the cost of the audit.


## 8. General

**8.1 Entire Agreement.** This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties concerning the subject matter hereof. Purchase orders shall
be for the sole purpose of defining quantities, prices and describing the
Software and Support Services to be provided under this Agreement and to this
extent only are incorporated as a part of this Agreement and all other terms in
purchase orders are rejected. This Agreement supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous discussions, proposals and agreements between the parties
relating to the subject matter hereof. No amendment, modification or waiver of
any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed
by both parties.

**8.2 Severability.** If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid
or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect
and such provision shall be enforced to the maximum extent possible so as to
affect the intent of the parties and shall be reformed to the extent necessary
to make such provision valid and enforceable.

**8.3 Waiver.** No waiver of rights by either party may be implied from any
actions or failures to enforce rights under this Agreement.

**8.4 Force Majeure.** Neither party shall be liable to the other for any delay
or failure to perform due to causes beyond its reasonable control (excluding
payment of monies due).

**8.5 No Third Party Beneficiaries.** Unless otherwise specifically stated, the
terms of this Agreement are intended to be and are solely for the benefit of
Typesafe and Customer and do not create any right in favor of any third party.

**8.6 Governing Law and Jurisdiction.** This Agreement shall be governed by the
laws of the State of California, without reference to the principles of
conflicts of law. The provisions of the Uniform Computerized Information
Transaction Act and United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International
Sale of Goods shall not apply to this Agreement. The parties shall attempt to
resolve any dispute related to this Agreement informally, initially through
their respective management, and then by non-binding mediation in San Francisco
County, California. Any litigation related to this Agreement shall be brought in
the state or federal courts located in San Francisco County, California, and
only in those courts and each party irrevocably waives any objections to such
venue.

**8.7 Notices.** All notices must be in writing and shall be effective three (3)
days after the date sent to the other party's headquarters, Attention Chief
Financial Officer.


## 9. Definitions

"Confidential Information" means any and all information or proprietary
materials (in every form and media) not generally known in the relevant trade or
industry and which has been or is hereafter disclosed or made available by
Typesafe to Customer in connection with the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement, including (i) all trade secrets, (ii) existing or contemplated
Software, services, designs, technology, processes, technical data, engineering,
techniques, methodologies and concepts and any related information, and (iii)
information relating to business plans, sales or marketing methods and customer
lists or requirements.

"Development Use" means use of the Software for the development of customer
applications only.

"Documentation" means the documentation made available electronically as part of
the Software, which may be modified during the
Term.

"Error" means a failure in the Software to materially conform in all material
respects to the specifications as described in the applicable
Documentation.

"Development Use and Evaluation License" means a term license for the Software.

"Maintenance Fix" means generally available code corrections and patches for the
Software designated by Typesafe by means of a change in the digit to the right
of the Minor Release number (e.g. x.x.1, x.x.2).

"Major Release" means a generally available release of the Software designated
by Typesafe by means of a change in the digit to the left of the first decimal
point (e.g. 2.x, 3.x, 4.x).

"Minor Release" means a generally available release of the Software designated
by Typesafe by means of a change in the digit to the right of the first decimal
point (e.g. x.4, x.5, x.6).

"Server" means a system on which all or a portion of the Software is installed
or used. A System includes a server, workstation, laptop, virtual machine,
blade, node, partition, appliance or engine, as applicable.

"Software" means the Typesafe Platform software licensed by Customer from
Typesafe under this Agreement.

"Software Subscription" means a term license purchased by Customer for the
Software and Support Services for the Software.

"Support Services" mean the support provided to Customer as part of the Software
Subscription as described in Exhibit A. "Upgrade" means a Release, Minor
Release, or Maintenance Fix of the Software.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Exhibit A: Support Services Terms

1.  **Support Services.** Typesafe's Support Services for the Software
    covers technical support, Error corrections and Upgrades. All Support
    Services shall be provided in the English language only. Customer
    shall designate support personnel who are knowledgeable about the
    Software to be responsible for reporting Errors and receiving and
    distributing Error corrections. Typesafe's Support Team
    representatives shall record all Error reports and coordinate
    responses. Customer may submit Error reports electronically. Customer
    may also request electronic status reports on reported Errors online
    or via e-mail.

2.  **Support Level.** The scope of Support Services provided under this
    Agreement is subject to: (a) the support level selected by the
    Subscriber in the applicable Order Form; and (b) the Support Policies
    displayed on the Typesafe website for the applicable support level, as
    updated by Typesafe from time to time. Subscriber acknowledges that:
    (a) while Typesafe cannot guarantee support results, Typesafe agrees
    to use its good faith, commercially reasonable efforts to provide
    support in accordance with the support standards set forth in this
    Agreement and the Support Policies; and (b) Typesafe reserves the
    right to discontinue support of versions of the Software with a
    minimum of twenty-four (24) months' notice given to Customer before a
    version is no longer supported.

3.  **Issue Severity.** All support issues are assigned a severity level:

    3.1 **Severity 1**: An error in the Software which severely affects
    the overall production performance of the Software's function or
    process, such that a production system is non-functional and no
    procedural work-around exists.

    3.2 **Severity 2**: An error in the Software which materially affects
    the overall production performance of the Software's function or
    process so that the function or process is noticeably impaired, but
    where business operations continue.

    3.3 **Severity 3**: An error that does not materially affect the
    overall performance of a production function or process. This may
    include a minor issue with limited loss or no loss of functionality or
    impact to Customer's operations.

    3.4 **Development**: A general usage question, developer 'how to'
    questions, report of a Documentation error, or recommendation for a
    future product improvement.

4.  **Response Times.** Typesafe and Customer shall cooperate in efforts
    to resolve reported Errors. For all reproducible reported Errors,
    Typesafe shall assign a tracking or ticket number, shall work to
    determine the source of the Errors and shall use commercially
    reasonable efforts to provide a fix, by-pass or work-around. Typesafe
    may request that the Customer duplicate the Error, instruct Typesafe
    how to duplicate the Error or provide problem log dumps, diagnostic
    tests or other investigative support. Customer shall provide all
    reasonably requested information to assist in arriving at a problem
    solution. In cases where Typesafe determines in its sole discretion
    that an Error in the standard Software has been identified by
    Customer, Typesafe shall attempt to provide a temporary resolution,
    and where appropriate, provide a permanent fix to the standard
    Software within a commercially reasonable timeframe. Typesafe shall
    use commercially reasonable efforts to meet the following initial
    response targets:

    4.1 **Gold Support**  
    **Hours of Coverage**: Business hours (8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Monday
      through Friday), excluding Typesafe holidays  
    **Support Channel**: Web, email and phone  
    **Target Response Times (Initial Response)**:  
    **Severity 1**: 4 business hours  
    **Severity 2**: 1 business day  
    **Severity 3**: 2 business days  
    **Development**: 1 business day 

    4.2 **Platinum Support**  
    **Hours of Coverage**: 24 hours by 7 days (24 x 7)  
    **Support Channel**: Web, email and phone  
    **Target Response Times (Initial Response)**:  
    **Severity 1**: 1 hour  
    **Severity 2**: 4 business hours  
    **Severity 3**: 1 business day  
    **Development**: 1 business day  

    4.3 **Developer Support**  
    **Hours of Coverage**: Business hours (8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Monday
      through Friday), excluding Typesafe holidays  
    **Support Channel**: Web and email  
    **Target Response Times (Initial Response)**:  
    **Severity 1**: N/A  
    **Severity 2**: N/A  
    **Severity 3**: N/A  
    **Development**: 1 business day  

    Typesafe may determine based on the information provided by Customer
    or through its own investigation that identified Errors were caused by
    non-Typesafe hardware, software, customizations, or from unauthorized
    modifications to Software ("Customer Error"). In the event of a
    Customer Error, Typesafe shall either, at its sole discretion, close
    the ticket without fixing the Customer Error or ask the Customer if it
    would like Typesafe to attempt to fix the Customer Error. If Customer
    and Typesafe agree that Typesafe shall attempt to fix a Customer Error
    (though Typesafe is under no obligation to do so), Typesafe shall bill
    Customer for such efforts on a time and materials basis, even if
    Typesafe is unable to fix the Customer Error. All Error correction
    services shall be provided from Typesafe's offices unless Typesafe and
    Customer mutually agree that Typesafe shall travel to the Customer
    location. If Typesafe personnel travel to a Customer or customer
    location to assist in Error correction, Typesafe shall charge Customer
    reasonable travel and living expenses, and, if the Error is a Customer
    Error, Typesafe's standard time and materials charges.

5.  **Upgrades.** From time to time, Typesafe may provide Upgrades of its
    Software. Upgrades may incorporate third party upgrades as well as
    accumulated bug fixes. A list of supported third party software and
    associated upgrades are listed in the Documentation. There shall be no
    additional charge for Upgrades provided Customer is current in the
    applicable Software Subscription Fees. The Customer shall implement
    provided Upgrades as soon as is reasonably practical. Upgrades do not
    include new Software. New Software provide significant new features
    and functions not available in the current Software line, port
    existing Software to new hardware or software platforms, provide
    significant new functionality on new hardware or software platforms.
    Hot fixes are provided to address critical failure and may not receive
    the full QA and regression testing performed on regular maintenance
    releases due to the urgent nature of the situation. Typesafe shall
    provide Customer with electronic download access to or physical media
    containing Error corrections and Upgrades, in its sole discretion.

6.  **Support Services Prerequisites.** Typesafe shall have no obligation
    to provide Support Services if Customer is not in compliance with the
    terms of this Agreement. To be eligible for Support Services, the
    hardware and operating system on which the Software are installed must
    meet Typesafe's minimum configuration requirements, which, for a given
    Minor Release of a Software, shall be published in that Software Minor
    Release's Documentation.

7.  **Support Services Exclusions.** Unless otherwise agreed to in an
    applicable Order Form, no Support Services can be provided for (i)
    Software that is modified by Customer personnel or by third parties; (ii)
    problems caused by accident, neglect, misuse or improper
    programming by Customer personnel; (iii) failure or fluctuations in
    electrical power or hardware equipment; or (iv) failure of Customer to
    fulfill its obligations under any of its agreements with Typesafe.


Support Services do not include or cover support that becomes necessary due to:

  - A malfunction of equipment or media not supplied or maintained by Typesafe;

  - Extensions to the Software involving custom or client-specific code (whether
    created by Typesafe or Customer);

  - Project management and training;

  - A failure of hardware, equipment or programs not covered by this Agreement;

  - Use of software not obtained from Typesafe under this Agreement;

  - Use of any release of the Software not marked as "Generally Available",
    except for Developer Support and agreed to by Typesafe in an applicable
    Order Form;

  - Any cause or causes beyond the reasonable control of Typesafe (e.g. floods,
    fires, loss of electricity or other utilities), Errors arising from anything
    other than the Software, such as databases, web-servers or hardware;

  - Customer's failure to comply with operating instructions contained in the
    Documentation;

  - Any modification, enhancement or customization of the Software made by
    anyone other than Typesafe;

  - APIs, interfaces, web services or data formats other than those included
    with the Software; or

  - Any third-party Software except to the extent that they are provided by
    Typesafe, and then only in support of the specific interface or
    functionality that is intended by Typesafe.
